We welcome all of our visitors! Please fill out a visitor card and take a coffee 
mug. Please join us for “Trapeza” down the street and get to know us! 

Parents, please SUPERVISE your children after church. Accompany them to the 
hall and to their classes. At the hall, children should play INSIDE the fences 
behind the building, not in the front or all over the property. 

• The dormition fast begins Monday. This is a short but strict two week fast in  
  honor of the Mother of God during the weeks before her repose. We ask her  
  intercession through daily paraklesis services while fasting strictly. 
• Please try to attend the services for Transfiguration this Friday and Saturday. 
• As we anticipate the beginning of the 2023-24 Sunday School year, we are  
  looking for substitute and assistant teachers. If you are willing to help in these  
  roles, please speak to Fr. Nicholas or any of the Sunday School teachers. 
• We’ll be attempting with God’s help to serve Liturgy at 6am on Fridays as a  
  general rule. During the dormition fast, we will have daily Vespers and    
  Paraklesis to the Mother of God. Please attend as you are able. 
• We are currently testing the first few pages of a new website for the Church  
  at https://new.orthodox.net.  Converting all of the pages over to the new  
  format will be a gradual process since orthodox.net has been around since  
  1996!  We will have a mix of new and old pages for some time, but please  
  feel free to test out the new website and offer any feedback you have to  
  support@orthodox.net.  Also drop an email there if you would like to get  
  involved with the website in some way.  Basically, reworking orthodox.net is  
  like overhauling an aircraft carrier. 

6pm 
6pm 
8:30am  
6pm 
8:30am  
7pm 
6am 
5:30pm  
9am 
2pm 
4pm 
8:30am  
9am 
2pm 

Mon 8/14 
Tue 8/15 
Wed 8/16 
Wed 8/16 
Thu 8/17 
Thu 8/17 
Fri 8/18 
Fri 8/18 
Sat 8/19 
Sat 8/19 
Sat 8/19 
Sun 8/20 
Sun 8/20 
Sun 8/20 
Please visit our website, orthodox.net, to find links for the calendar and confession 
sign-ups. Donations can be made via PayPal or by check. 

Paraklesis 
Paraklesis, then Vespers 
Divine Liturgy 
Paraklesis, then Vespers 
Divine Liturgy 
Vespers, then Paraklesis 
Divine Liturgy 
Paraklesis, then Vigil for Transfiguration 
Divine Liturgy, preceded by Baptism at 8am 
Confessions (please signup) 
Paraklesis, then Vigil, followed by Confessions 
Confessions (please signup) 
Hours and Liturgy, Trapeza, Catechism class 
Paraklesis, then Vespers 

Announced at the Cross

Aug 13/July 31, 2023 
10th Sunday after Pentecost 
Righteous Eudocimus of Cappadocia / Forefeast of the 
Procession of the Cross 
Прав. Евдокима Каппадокиянина / Предпразднство 
Происхождения честных древ Креста Господня 

Holy & Righteous Eudocimus, Troparion, Tone IV. 
He Who hath summoned thee from earth to the mansions of heaven/ also 
pre-serveth thy body incorrupt after death, O holy Eudocimus,/ for thou 
didst live in chastity and a pure life,/ without defiling thy flesh, O blessed 
one.// Wherefore, entreat Christ God with boldness, that we may be saved. 

Прав. Евдокима. Тропарь святаго, глас 4. 
От земли́ воззва́вый тя к Небе́сным селе́нием/ соблюда́ет и по 
сме́рти невреди́мо те́ло твое́, свя́те Евдоки́ме:/ ты бо в целому́дрии 
и чи́стом жи́тельстве, блаже́нне,/ жи́тельствовал еси́, не оскверни́в 
пло́ти./ Те́мже со дерзнове́нием моли́ Христа́ Бо́га спасти́ся нам. 

Rector: Archpriest Seraphim Holland 

(972) 658-5433 

seraphim@orthodox.net 

Assistant Pastor: Priest Nicholas Park 

(972) 839-2439 

frnicholas@orthodox.net 

708 S Chestnut St, McKinney, TX 75069 – orthodox.net 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John 21:1-14 (10th Matins Gospel) 
1 Corinthians 4:9-16, Galatians 5:22-6:2 
Matthew 17:14-23, Matthew 11:27:30 
Orthodox calendar on holytrinityorthodox.com or app      

Righteous Eudocimus of Cappadocia (+9th c.) 
      Saint Eudocimus, a native of Cappadocia (Asia Minor), lived during the ninth 
century during the reign of Emperor Theophilus (829-842). He was the son of the 
pious Christians Basil and Eudokia, an illustrious family known to the emperor. 
They raised their son “in discipline and admonition of the Lord” (Eph. 6: 4), 
planting in his soul a sincere faith and holy virtues. 
      The righteous life of Saint Eudocimus was devoted to pleasing God and serving 
his neighbor. Having given a vow to remain unmarried and chaste, he avoided 
conversation with women and did not look at them. He would speak only with his 
own mother, whom he greatly respected. The emperor valued his virtue and 
talents, so he appointed Saint Eudocimus as governor of Chorziane, Armenia. 
Fulfilling his duty as a servant of God, Saint Eudocimus governed the people justly 
and with kindness. He concerned himself with the unfortunate, and with orphans 
and widows, and he was a defender of the common people. His personal Christian 
exploits which he did in secret, were known only to God. 
      Eudocimus pleased God by his blameless life, and the Lord called him at age 
33. Lying on his deathbed, Saint Eudocimus gave final instructions to place him in 
the grave in those clothes in which he would meet death. Then he sent everyone 
out of the room and entreated the Lord that no one would see his end, just as no 
one saw his secret efforts during life. His attendants buried him as he had 
instructed them. Right after the death of Saint Eudocimus miracles took place at 
his grave. Many sick people were healed, and the news of the miraculous healings 
spread. 
      After 18 months, the mother of Saint Eudocimus came from Constantinople to 
venerate his relics. She gave orders to remove the stone, dig up the ground, and 
open the grave. Everyone beheld the face of the saint, bright as if alive, altogether 
untouched by decay. A great fragrance came from him. They took up the coffin 
with the relics from the earth, and they dressed the saint in new clothes. His 
mother wanted to take the relics of her son to Constantinople, but the Kharsian 
people would not clear a path for their holy one. After a certain time the 
hieromonk Joseph, having lived and served at the grave of the saint, transported 
the relics of Saint Eudocimus to Constantinople. There they were placed in a silver 
reliquary in the church of the Most Holy Theotokos, built by the parents of the 
saint. 
      Saint Eudocimus is considered by the Russian Church to be one of the special 
protectors and intercessors before God of the family hearth. He was, as his name 
implies, truly successful in every virtue. 

Righteous Joseph of Arimathea (+1st c.) 
      Righteous Joseph of Arimathea was a secret disciple of our Lord Jesus Christ. As 
a member of the Sanhedrin, he did not participate in the council and deed of the 
Jews in passing a death sentence for Jesus Christ. After the Crucifixion and Death 
of the Savior, he made bold to go to Pilate and demand of him the Body of the Lord, 
to Which he gave burial with the help of Righteous Nicodemus, who was likewise 
a secret disciple of the Lord. They took down from the Cross the Body of the Savior, 
wrapped it in a winding-cloth, and placed it in a new-hewn tomb, in which no 
one earlier had been buried (this tomb Saint Joseph had prepared previously for 
himself) – in the Garden of Gethsemane, in the presence of the Mother of God and 
the holy Myrrh-Bearing Women. Having rolled a heavy stone before the entrance 
of the tomb, they then departed (Jn. 19: 37-42; Mt. 27: 57-61; Mk. 15: 43-47; Lk. 
24: 50-56). 
      Saint Joseph died peacefully in Anglium (England). 

St. Germanus, bishop of Auxerre (+448) 
      Saint Germanus was born at Auxerre around 389 and studied rhetoric and law 
at Rome. There he practiced as a lawyer. 
      The emperor Honorius sent him back to Gaul as a provincial governor, with 
his headquarters at Auxerre. He also married about this time. In 418 he was 
chosen to succeed Saint Amator (comm. May 1) as Bishop of Auxerre. From that 
time on, his faith became deeper, and his prayer more fervent. He gave away his 
possessions to the poor and ate coarse barley bread, only in the evening. He often 
fasted for several days and dressed in simple monastic garb. 
      Pope Celestine I sent him to Britain in 429 with Saint Lupus of Troyes (comm. 
Jul 29) to fight the Pelagian heresy, where they defeated the teachers of this false 
doctrine. During one of his two trips to Britain Saint Germanus took command of 
an army and defeated a combined force of Saxons and Picts. 
      When savage barbarians threatened the city of Armorica (now Brittany), Saint 
Germanus met their leader, seized his horse’s bridle, and turned him around. After 
defusing the threat, the saint traveled to Ravenna seeking pardon for the rebels 
from the emperor Valentinian III. He was received with honor, and died there on 
July 31, 448. 
      The body of Saint Germanus was brought back to Auxerre for burial. Centuries 
later, his holy relics were scattered by the Huguenots. 

Please remember that it is not sufficient to just come to Sunday Liturgy! 
If you wish to find salvation, you must be pursuing a conscious Orthodox Life, 
centered around prayer and fulfillment of God's commandments. You must be 
fighting the passions of your soul and body with the aid of frequent confession, 
and communion as often as your confessor advises. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
